Hey, everyone.
So, let's go ahead, and
dive right into talking about the PSTN, or
the public switch telephone networks,
which is just the traditional phone
sorta network, and
how it relates to everything here.
>> Yeah, how it relates to VoIP.
>> Mm-hm.
So, first of all, it's just a circuit
switch network, which basically means it's
a network that uses circuits
to connect the nodes to send
the data instead of the packet switch
network where it just uses the Internet.
So, that's just.
So, to get the circuit switch networks,
they would have to setup
the physical telephone lines.
Sometimes you've seen them in movies
where they have the long poles and
just runs across everywhere.
And then, sometimes you'll need
to call someone in Europe,
you'll have to have an underwater
giant cable, something like that.
>> And while traditional
analog telephones still exist,
the public switched telephone
network will as well.
Because even when using VoIP,
the VoIP signal eventually gets to a point
where it needs to find the telephone.
>> Yeah, so all these were just
the traditional landline phones, whatnot.
And since it's had so much time to grow,
which is why the network is just
humongous right now, and that's why it's
probably not gonna go away any time soon.
>> Yeah.
>> So, here we're going look
at over some things about the original
phone where it just has the microphone,
has the ear piece, or
the speaker which is the receiver.
You have a ringer so
you know when someone's calling you.
And you have some contacts or
addresses so you know who to call.
And all of these are also
encapsulated in VoIP.
Right?
But, it tends to be less efficient,
because it doesn't really
use the bandwidth that well.
Because everything's just on analog.
>> Yeah, so when it comes to
the old school telephones.
I don't know, maybe some of you remember
because you still use the old school
telephones, the analog phones.
But you have to have all these other
devices, you have your phone but
if you want a Caller ID,
you have to hook up a Caller ID.
If you want a message machine,
you have to hook up a message machine.
All of these things just come integrated-
>> That adds up to have a overhead cost.
So, the old telephones didn't have more,
but
often times with VoIP phones everything's
already integrated, like software, or
just simply all in one package.
So, with that begs us to ask the question,
if VoIP is better then why
is the PSTN still around?
And we just answered that earlier where
it's humongous because there's been so
much time for the network to grow.
Because the analog phones came first,
Internet was not around until
say two decades ago, right?
>> Yeah, so you have a huge network which
means we still have to cater to that.
>> Right, so we have to find a way, if
we're gonna slowly transition into VoIP,
we have to find a way to
still be able to talk
to the old analog phones that
are still on the PSTN network.
>> Mm-hm.
>> Or PSTN.
And the way they do that, is,
we would introduce a device that will just
basically convert the signal
that the VoIP uses
into a signal that the traditional
phone can understand.
And likewise, the traditional phone
will be able to send a signal
that gets converted into a signal
that VoIP can understand.
So, with that, and
here we have up on the slides where you
can see how everything sort of connects.
Where there's the IP and then the PSTN and
they have to communicate through
this gateway, basically.
>> Yeah, we're gonna actually talk
about gateways a little bit later.
>> Mm-hm.
Yeah, exactly.
But, that just wraps up our talk
about the traditional phone,
and we'll see you next time.